---
id: 2024_04_23-quotation_mdr_t_16024_24_03_01
title: "2024 04 23 Quotation Mdr T 16024 24 03 01"
sidebar_label: "2024 04 23 Quotation Mdr T 16024 24 03 01"
---

# Quotation
**To:** **SPIKA TECH, S.L**
c/ Alcalá de Guadaira, nº 6, 6ºA Derecha, MADRID
**Att:** Dr Fernando Pozo
**Offer Reference:** T_16024_24_03_01 **Date:** 13/03/2024
## _Certification according to MDR_
Dear Dr Fernando Pozo, Following your request, we are pleased to hereby submit our offer for the conformity
assessment and certification of your organization and inform you on the details of the assessment process.
We hope you will find our proposal in line with your needs and accept it, following the steps presented below. However, if you believe that it does not fully meet your
requirements, please let us know so we can make the necessary adjustments.
If you need any clarifications, you can contact me at pappous@htcert.com.
We look forward to hearing from you soon.
Jacovides Tower, 81-83 Grivas Dighenis Av., 1090 Nicosia, Cyprus [www.htcert.com](http://www.htcert.com/), [info@htcert.com](mailto:info@htcert.com), T. +357 22 060 771 - 2
# Quotation
## **_A. Scope Details_**
- Conformity assessment under (EU) 2017/745 Medical Device Regulation, Annex IX.
Device included: VR-CARDIO

|B. Financial Terms|Service|Estimated cost1|
|---|---|---|
|<br /> <br />|**Service**<br />|**Estimated cost1 **<br />|
|**_Application submission_**|Application Review<br />|4.000 €|
|**_Initial Certification_**|· TD assessment<br />· QMS Audit<br />· Initial certification fees<br />|38.650 €|
|**_Surveillance year 1_**|· TD assessment<br />· QMS Audit<br />· Annual fees<br />|14.650 €|
|**_Surveillance year 2_**|· TD assessment<br />· QMS Audit<br />· Annual fees<br />|14.650 €|
|**_Surveillance year 3_**|· TD assessment<br />· QMS Audit<br />· Annual fees<br />|16.650 €|
|**_Surveillance year 4_**|· TD assessment<br />· QMS Audit<br />· Annual fees|14.650 €|
|**_Surveillance year 5_** <br />|· TD assessment<br />|0 €<br />|
|**_Surveillance year 5_** <br />|_A renewal process has to be completed before the_<br />_expiration of the certification._<br />_Renewal process and associated costs are not stated in_<br />_this quotation._|_A renewal process has to be completed before the_<br />_expiration of the certification._<br />_Renewal process and associated costs are not stated in_<br />_this quotation._|

## **_C. Process steps and cost estimates analysis_**
**Application Review**
**Cost for Application Review** **4.000 €**
The first step of the conformity assessment procedure according to MDR is the Application Review. This includes the following activities:
- Verification of the qualification and classification of the devices included in
the scope
- Verification of the applicability of the conformity assessment procedures
chosen 1 Not including any additional costs that may arise as described below.
F1315_8.0_19/02/2024 Page 2 of 6
# Quotation
- Review of the QMs documentation submitted to verify its suitability
- Review of the technical documentation submitted to verify that it is in line
with HTCert Technical Documentation Submission Guidance
- Verification that HTCert has sufficient and suitable resources.
**Initial Assessment**
**1.** **Estimated Cost for Initial Assessment**
- QMS Audit. This includes onsite and offsite days for
- Audit preparation and planning
- Stage 1 audit
- Stage 2 audit
- Audit of supplier(s)/subcontractors (AITEX)
- Compilation of the audit reports
Estimated duration: days
- Technical documentation assessment. This includes the days required for
- the assessment of all applicable requirements as per MDR Annexes II
& III for all devices included in the certification scope.
- Compilation of the assessment reports
Estimated duration: days
**2.** **Additional Charges**
- Additional assessment, either on-site visits or desk reviews required to
verify corrective actions.
_Applicable for QMS audits and TD assessments._ _Cost will be determined based on the actual time spent._
- Additional audits at crucial suppliers and critical subcontractors’ premises
required to confirm the control of processes and the conformity of the devices.
_Applicable if it is found that the manufacturer cannot demonstrate sufficient_ _control over its suppliers/ subcontractors._
**2.000 €/day**
**2.000 €/day**
**250 €/hour**
**2.000 €/day**
**3.** **Fees for initial certification** **12.650 €**
This includes:
- Administrative project management fees
- Project coordination
- Final review and decision on granting certification
- Issuance of certificates: A PDF file in English language and a hard copy in
A4 format, for each certificate.
- Registration in the EUDAMED database
**Estimated Cost for Maintaining Certification**
F1315_8.0_19/02/2024 Page 3 of 6
**1.** **Estimated Cost for Assessments during Surveillance**
- QMS Audits. This includes onsite and offsite days for
- Audit preparation and planning
- Onsite auditing
- Compilation of the audit reports
# Quotation
**2.000 €/day**
Estimated duration:
- Surveillance audit days per year
- Recertification audit days every 3 years
**2.** **Additional Charges**
- Additional assessment, either on-site visits or desk reviews required to
verify corrective actions.
_Applicable for QMS audits, regular and unannounced, and for_ _assessments of TDs, PSURs, SSCPs, PMCF reports_ _and associated_
_documentation._ _Cost will be determined based on the actual time spent._
- Review of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs), Validation and
uploading of Summary of Safety and Clinical Performance (SSCPs), Post Market Clinical Follow-up reports (PMCF reports) and associated
documentation.
_The above activities, if and when conducted, will be charged at the_ _specified rate._
- Unannounced Audits
The cost includes onsite and offsite days for
- Audit preparation and planning
- Onsite audit. _Unannounced audits last at least one day and are_
_usually performed by two auditors._
- Compilation of the audit report
_Unannounced Audits are conducted at least once during the certification_ _validity period._
**250 €/hour**
**2.000 €/day**
**7.000 €/audit**
**3.** **Fees for surveillance** **8.650 €/year**
This includes:
- Annual certificate maintenance fee
- Administrative project management fees
- Audit schedule maintenance
- Final review and decision on maintaining certification
- Regulatory discussions and general support of the client
- Processing of enquiries from the authorities
- Updates of registrations in the EUDAMED database
F1315_8.0_19/02/2024 Page 4 of 6
# Quotation
**Additional pricing information**
**Travel and accommodation fees**
- All travel and accommodation costs shall be borne by the Client. The following provisions
apply:
- Auditor travelling time is charged as follows:
- Auditor travelling day: 800 € per auditor, per travel day.
- Auditor travelling day is charged in the following cases: if an overnight stay is necessary
either on the eve of the on-site audit or on the last day of the audit.
- Travel and accommodation expenses are as follows:
- Hotel accommodation: First Class (****)
- Travel by plane: business class, Travel by rail/boat: 1st class, Travel by car: 0.3 €/km,
Taxi/rental car/road fees/parking fees/fuel etc. expenses incurred will be charged at cost.
**Assessment of changes**
- Extensions and/or significant changes to the scope of certification, or other special visits,
unless expressly stated are not included in the fees presented.
- Assessment of changes is charged on an hourly rate of 250 €/hour.
**Payment Terms**
- Invoices will be issued for each stage of the process. The client shall pay each valid invoice
within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice.
- Application Review Cost is charged in advance and is non-refundable even if the application
is rejected.
**Important Notes**
- This offer is based upon the data provided in the certification request and will be subject to
review and confirmation after completion of stage 1 audit.
- If this information is inaccurate or has changed, a recalculation of costs and prices may be
required.
- Please note that the actual time to carry out the assessment activities may be higher than the
estimated and will be invoiced accordingly.
- HTCert reserves the right to increase its fees annually by up to 10%.
- In case of changes to the applicable regulatory requirements during the certification validity
period, HTCert may modify the offer and proceed to relevant adjustments.
- Anything not clearly indicated in this Quotation shall be subject to the provisions of the
standing Price List as regards the corresponding charges.
- Prices quoted do not include VAT, GST or any other tax.
F1315_8.0_19/02/2024 Page 5 of 6 The process for the certification, the terms and
conditions that apply and the price list are [available in our website https://htcert.com/.](https://htcert.com/)
It is specifically stated that the standing version of the General Terms and Conditions for the
Certification of Medical Devices under MDR shall always supersede the contractual
provisions and shall inevitably affect the contractual terms.
Offer Validity This quotation is based upon the data you
provided via the HTCertSystem on 29/02/2024 and remains valid for one month. We reserve the
right to amend our quotation or even cancel the agreement if the information is found inaccurate
or incomplete.
No modifications to this quotation shall be legally binding unless and until accepted in writing by
both parties.
Offer Acceptance / Application If our offer is accepted, please return this
quotation duly signed within the validity period stated above.
On receipt of the signed offer, HTCert will send you the formal application form and the list of
documents required.
The signed application must be submitted within one month of receipt and the supporting
documents within 6 months of submission of the application, unless otherwise stated.
# Quotation
Application review The conformity assessment under MDR is a
multi-step process, starting with the review of the application and, upon its positive outcome,
proceeding to the assessment of the devices’ Technical Documentation and the
manufacturer’s Quality Management System.
The positive outcome of this review is a prerequisite for the acceptance of the
application by HTCert and the signing of the contract. A negative outcome will lead to the
rejection of the application. In this scenario, HTCert will enter into the EUDAMED database
the relevant data and the process will be terminated. However, a new application may be
lodged, starting a new cycle of review and assessment.
Assessment process After acceptance of the application, the binding
contract will be signed and the conformity assessment process will start.
The conformity assessment includes assessment of the technical documentation in
conjunction with audit of the quality management system. A detailed description of
all the process steps and their sequence, covering both the initial assessment and the
monitoring activities during the validity period of the certification, is provided in the General
Terms and Conditions for the Certification of Medical Devices under MDR, which you can
[download following the link General-Terms.](https://htcert.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/General-Terms-and-Conditions-for-MDR-Certification-1.pdf)
Please keep in mind that Greek and English are the only acceptable languages for
communication with HTCert and submitted data must be into one of these languages.

|LEGALLY BINDING SIGNATURE|Col2|
|---|---|
|Name<br />_CRISTINA ZÚÑIGA ARNAIZ_|Position<br />_SOLE ADMINISTRATOR_|
|Date<br />24 APRIL 2024|Signature|

F1315_8.0_19/02/2024 Page 6 of 6