**Annex 2\_VERSION\_05**

# CAPA Report








**LAYER REPORT**
**CODE**


**AC-003/25**
























Person opening the action:
Iván Pérez
Department
Quality Assurance




Detection date
15/07/2025
Origin
Notified Body Audit


Description of the finding
The methodology used in the FMEA report for calculating
the Risk Priority Number (RPN) is based on the multiplication of
severity, probability, and detectability and does not align with the
Risk Management procedure PNT-002.04, which defines the RPN calculation
as the product of severity and probability only


Root cause analysis
A discrepancy has been identified between the
methodology applied in the FMEA report and the risk management procedure
PNT-002.04. While the procedure defines the calculation of the RPN as
the multiplication of severity and probability (RPN = S × P), the FMEA
report uses the traditional formula S × P × D (detectability). This
inconsistency is due to the lack of alignment between the template used
for the FMEA and the internal criteria defined in the procedure.


Immediate correction
Record the non-conformity in the quality system and
provide traceability of the follow-up.


Corrective/preventive action
• Updating the standard FMEA analysis template to
correctly reflect the internal methodology for calculating the RPN (S ×
P).
• Review of previous risk analyses to identify possible inconsistent
documents.


Verification of the impact of the action on the
product

Yes (if you check this box, explain below)
No


Is there an impact on regulatory requirements?
☐
☒


Is there an impact on safety and operation?
☐
☒


Impact assessment:
N/A


Responsible for the action
Iván Pérez
Department
Quality Assurance


Deadline
31/10/2025


To be completed by the person who opens
Signature and date



To be completed by the quality manager:
Signature and date
Date:



Evaluation of the effectiveness of the change – To be
completed when the change is made


Has the change been implemented
successfully?
☐
Yes


☐
No
Observations





Effectiveness of change – To be completed when the
change is made





Closing carried out by:
Date