GOOD PRACTICES FOR DOCUMENTATION AND DATA INTEGRITY

| Function: | Prepared by: | Reviewed by: | Approved by: |
|-------------|-------------------|---------------------------|-------------------|
| Department: | Quality Assurance | Systems and cybersecurity | Quality Assurance |
| Name: | Ivan Perez | David Pozo | Fernando Pozo |
| Signature: | | | |
| Date: | | | |

| Valid until: | 02/06/2028 |
|--------------|------------|

| **DOCUMENT HISTORY** | | | |
|----------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------|-------------------------------|
| **VERSION** | **CAUSES OF MODIFICATION** | **EFFECTIVE DATE** | **REPLACES (Code, Revision)** |
| 01 | Initial edition | 22/02/2024 | N/A |
| 02 | Change in Spika's departments | 02/06/2025 | PNT-023.01 |

# Content

[1.](#aim) [Objective](#aim) [4](#aim)

[2.](#scope) [Scope](#scope) [4](#scope)

[3.](#responsibilities-and-departments-affected) [Responsibilities and
Departments affected](#responsibilities-and-departments-affected)
[4](#responsibilities-and-departments-affected)

[4.](#definitions-and-acronyms) [Definitions and
Acronyms](#definitions-and-acronyms) [4](#definitions-and-acronyms)

[5.](#procedure) [Procedure](#procedure) [5](#procedure)

[5.1.](#introduction) [Introduction](#introduction) [5](#introduction)

[5.2.](#documentation-features) [Documentation
characteristics](#documentation-features) [5](#documentation-features)

[5.2.1.](#complete) [Complete](#complete) [5](#complete)

[5.2.2.](#clara) [Clara](#clara) [6](#clara)

[5.2.3.](#consistent) [Consistent](#consistent) [7](#consistent)

[5.2.4.](#correct) [Correct](#correct) [8](#correct)

[5.2.5.](#direct) [Direct](#direct) [9](#direct)

[5.2.6.](#immediate) [Immediate](#immediate) [9](#immediate)

[5.2.7.](#permanent) [Permanent](#permanent) [9](#permanent)

[5.2.8.](#readable) [Legible](#readable) [9](#readable)

[5.2.9.](#realistic) [Realistic](#realistic) [10](#realistic)

[5.3.](#allowed-abbreviations) [Permitted
abbreviations](#allowed-abbreviations) [10](#allowed-abbreviations)

[5.4.](#data-integrity) [Data integrity](#data-integrity)
[10](#data-integrity)

[6.](#distribution-of-the-procedure) [Distribution of
Procedure](#distribution-of-the-procedure)
[11](#distribution-of-the-procedure)

[7.](#annexes) [Annexes](#annexes) [11](#annexes)

[8.](#related-documentation) [Related
documentation](#related-documentation) [12](#related-documentation)

[9.](#training) [Formation](#training) [12](#training)

# Aim

The objective of this procedure is to establish the minimum criteria and
requirements that the documentation generated by Spika Tech, hereinafter
Spika, must meet, in order to unify the criteria in the documentation
written by staff.

# Scope

The scope of this procedure applies to all documentation generated in
SPIKA.

# Responsibilities and Departments Affected

It is the responsibility of any SPIKA employee to comply with this
procedure.

The affected departments are those indicated in the following table:

| Department | Apply | |
|---------------------------|-------|-----|
| | Yeah | No |
| Address | ☒ | ☐ |
| Environment | ☒ | ☐ |
| Quality Assurance | ☒ | ☐ |
| Systems and Cybersecurity | ☒ | ☐ |
| Research and Development | ☒ | ☐ |
| Marketing and Sales | ☒ | ☐ |
| Management | ☒ | ☐ |

# Definitions and Acronyms

See section 5.3 Abbreviations.

# Procedure

# Introduction 

Good documentation is a fundamental part of the quality management
system and is key to working in compliance with regulatory requirements.

The primary objective of the documentation system used must be to
establish, control, monitor, and record all activities that have a
direct or indirect impact on any aspect of the quality of the products
being manufactured.

The Quality Management System shall include sufficient detailed
instructions to facilitate a common understanding of the requirements,
as well as provide sufficient records of the various processes and an
evaluation of any observations, so that the continued application of
requirements can be demonstrated.

Documentation can exist in different forms (including paper, electronic
or photographic media) and is mainly classified into two types:

- Instructions (indications, requirements): This group includes
 specifications, procedures, protocols and technical agreements.

- Records/Reports.

Depending on the type of document, appropriate good documentation
practices must be applied. Appropriate controls must be implemented to
ensure the accuracy, integrity, availability, and legibility of
documents.

# Documentation features 

# Complete

The documentation must be complete, containing all necessary data
(including units of measurement when reporting results) and all blank
spaces in the document must contain information, even when it is not
applicable, the acronym N/A can be used.

Quotation marks (“) are not permitted to indicate that the field being
filled in contains the same data as the field above it. They must always
be written, even if the information is repeated. See the following
example:


style="width:3.94167in;height:1.61597in"
alt="Interfaz de usuario gráfica, Aplicación Descripción generada automáticamente con confianza media" />

When it comes to a complete blank page or part of a page that will not
be completed, a line must be drawn across the entire uncompleted
portion, and the line must be signed and dated. This line can be drawn
in the two ways detailed below, always ensuring that no writing can be
done after the entry is completed.


style="width:2.29097in;height:2.8375in"
alt="Tabla Descripción generada automáticamente" />
style="width:2.3in;height:2.8in"
alt="Tabla Descripción generada automáticamente" />

Blank pages should not be deleted from a document.

Documents must be numbered according to the model page X of Y, thus
ensuring that there are no missing pages.

# Clara

Documents must be drafted in such a way as to avoid any ambiguity: their
title, nature, and purpose must be clearly stated, allowing for clear
interpretation and leaving no room for doubt.

Anyone reading the document must be able to understand its meaning.

# Consistent

Unique instructions should be established that can be repeated in the
same way by different people at different times.

When writing a document, the same verb tense must be used throughout.

For the decimal expression, the grammatical sign of the comma located to
the right and below the numerical sign of the unit will be used.

Eg: 21 **,** 2

For the expression of a thousand and its multiples, the grammatical sign
of the period to the right and below the numerical sign of the thousand
unit will be used.

Eg: 1 **.** 526

For information related to date and time entries in a document, the
following guidelines should be followed:

**Date Entry:** To record dates, the format described below must be
used:


style="width:4.04167in;height:0.55833in"
alt="Texto Descripción generada automáticamente" />

**DAY MONTH YEAR**

(2 digits) (2 digits or three letters) (2 or 4 digits)

As detailed in the figure above, the date must be entered in the
following order: first, the day using two digits; second, the
month using two digits or the first three letters of the month;
and finally, the year using two or four digits. Each digit can be
separated by a diagonal line or hyphen. The four-digit format for the
year is preferred, provided space permits.

**Time entries:** Time entries will be made using the military format
(00:00-24:00 h).

> E.g.: 09:05 19:21 23:19

# Correct

The documentation must be correct, and properly prepared, reviewed,
approved and distributed, according to **PNT-001 Management of documents
and archives.**

Information should not be able to be subsequently modified unless
evidence of correctness is presented.

Any modification made to written information in a document must be
signed and dated; the modification must not impede the readability of
the original information. If applicable, the reason for the modification
must be stated. Corrections must be made by the person who provided the
original information; corrections are only permitted for obvious errors.
The procedure for correcting errors in a written document is detailed
below:

> 1\. **Draw a single line** (horizontal or diagonal, see examples) over
> the incorrect entry, data or information where the error was made, in
> such a way that **the reading of the initial data is not impeded:**
>
> 
> style="width:1.56667in;height:0.225in" />
> 
> style="width:1.85833in;height:0.24167in" />
>
> 2\. **Write the correct information** above or to the side (provided
> there is enough space; if there is not, proceed as indicated on the
> following page).
>
> 
> style="width:1.64167in;height:0.43333in"
> alt="Texto Descripción generada automáticamente" />
> 
> style="width:1.73333in;height:0.375in"
> alt="Texto Descripción generada automáticamente" />
>
> 3\. Write **an explanation for the correction** (for permitted
> abbreviations, see section 5.7). You must also reference the document
> from which the information was retrieved, if applicable.
>
> 
> style="width:1.75833in;height:0.45in"
> alt="Texto Descripción generada automáticamente" />
> 
> style="width:1.71667in;height:0.44167in"
> alt="Texto Descripción generada automáticamente" />
>
> 4\. **Signature** of the person making the correction and **date** on
> which it was made.


style="width:2.175in;height:0.60833in"
alt="Texto Descripción generada automáticamente con confianza media" />

style="width:2.21667in;height:0.55833in"
alt="Texto Descripción generada automáticamente con confianza media" />

If it is not possible to justify the reason for the correction at the
side or above it, due to not having enough space in that part of the
document, it is acceptable to include the symbol \* or letters next to
the correction made and note it at the bottom or on the back of the
page.

# Direct

Information must be recorded directly on the document; no transcriptions
should be made, as this increases the risk of errors or loss of
information. Therefore, scraps of paper, Post-it notes, or sticky notes
should not be used to take notes.

# Immediate

Records must be completed **at the time** each activity is
carried out and in a manner that allows for chronological tracking of
all significant activities related to the manufacture of medicines.

Record “what was actually done at the time” rather than “what is
remembered.”

You should never set a date before or after the current one.

# Permanent

When recording data/information in a written document, this information
must not be erasable or deleted later. Therefore, the use of pencils,
markers, liquid-ink pens, and *Tipp-Ex correction fluids is prohibited.*

Always use a **blue** indelible ink pen .

As a general rule, the use of red ink pens is not permitted.

# Readable

Information should be presented clearly and not misleading. The size
used should be sufficient to allow for legibility. There should be
adequate space between notes.

Special attention must be paid to the legibility of numbers and
characters to avoid confusion. For example, some digits and letters that
can often be confused with each other are:

- 0 and 6

- 3 and 8

- 5 and S

- 1 and 7

- B and 8

- U and V

- 0 and O

# Realistic

The documented information must be true and must be documented by the
person who performed the activity. Information must never be falsified.

The signatures confirm that the information signed is true. This
signature is personal and non-transferable and must be recorded on the
corresponding sheet of the signature recognition booklet, prepared
according to procedure **PNT-017-Signature Registration** . No signature
other than the one recorded should be used.

In those activities that require the signature of the person performing
the activity and the signature of the person reviewing or verifying,
these signatures cannot belong to the same person.

# Allowed abbreviations

Below is a list of the abbreviations to use when making any notes on a
document:

> EA: Annotation error
>
> EC: Calculation error
>
> ED: Data error
>
> EE: Typing error
>
> EG: Grammatical error
>
> ET: Transcription error
>
> N/A or NA: Not applicable

# Data integrity

Data integrity requirements apply to both paper (manual) and electronic
records and are essential to ensuring that data is complete, consistent,
and accurate.

The data must comply with the ALCOA rule:

> A Attributable to the person who records the data.
>
> L Legible and permanent.
>
> C Contemporary: recorded at the time.

The Original (or true copy of the original).

> A (from the English accurate) Exact, precise.

There are several ways to ensure data integrity, some of which may be:

- Follow good documentation practices.

- Implement control systems to detect or reduce errors (e.g.,
 second-person verification, computerized data capture systems, etc.).

- Separate roles for access to computerized systems, as well as using
 and reviewing system audit trails.

- Prevent unauthorized access and use strong passwords to access
 systems, with at least 8 alphanumeric characters and symbols.

It must be ensured that each employee has only the access appropriate
for their position, that they are trained in the applicable system, and
that all actions are attributable to the individual(s) performing them.
Therefore, any employee who detects that data integrity is being or may
be violated must notify their immediate supervisor.

# Distribution of the Procedure

Staff members in the departments listed in Section 3 (Responsibilities
and Affected Departments) must be provided with a copy of this
procedure. In addition, controlled copy No. 1 will be submitted to the
Archives for paper archiving.

Controlled copies to be issued:

| **Controlled Copy No.** | **Departments** |
|-------------------------|-----------------|
| 1 | Archive |

# Annexes

| **NO. / REV.** | **QUALIFICATION** |
|----------------|-------------------|
| N/A | N/A |

# Related documentation

| **Code** | **QUALIFICATION** |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| PNT-001 | Document and archive management |
| PNT-017 | Signature register |

# Training

This version requires that the affected departments indicated in section
3 receive the training indicated below:

| **Mark with an X** | **Type of training** |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ☒ | **Theoretical** (reading and understanding of the procedure) |
| ☐ | **Theoretical – Practical** (If you select this option, contact the Responsible Technician) |

#