---
title: "CAPA Report"
sidebar_label: "CAPA Report"
responsable: "Director de Calidad"
clasificacion: "USO INTERNO"
fecha_revision: "2026-03-15"
idioma: "en"
tags:
  - auditoria
  - calidad
  - capa
  - english
  - evaluacion
  - iso-13485
  - no-conformidad
  - registros
---

**Annex 2\_VERSION\_05**

# CAPA Report








**LAYER REPORT**
**CODE**


**AC-004/25**
























Person opening the action:
Iván Pérez
Department
Quality Assurance




Detection date
15/07/2025
Origin
Notified Body Audit


Description of the finding
The issues related with the UDI (basic udi-di, udi-pi
etc) are not clearly addressed in the QMS. (E.g. It is not described the
impact of versioning to the udi-pi, or the impact of change of the
intended purpose of the product to the basic udi-di)


Root cause analysis
The lack of clear development on UDI-related aspects
(including Basic UDI-DI, UDI-DI and UDI-PI) within the quality
management system is due to a limited initial interpretation of the MDR
requirements in this area. In particular, the impacts of certain changes
on the unique identifier, such as changes in the version/revision of the
software (UDI-PI) or changes in the intended use of the product (Basic
UDI-DI), are not adequately addressed.


Immediate correction
Record the non-conformity in the quality system and
provide traceability of the follow-up.


Corrective/preventive action
Modification of the labelling control procedure to
include:

Clear definition of UDI-DI, UDI-PI and Basic UDI-DI
elements
Records and traceability of UDI code assignment.
Specification of the person responsible for generating,
maintaining and communicating UDI codes.

Update of the change control procedure to:

Include UDI impact analysis for every modification.
Document when a release generates a new UDI-PI.
Include criteria for determining when a change affects the Basic
UDI-DI (e.g. change in intended use or product family).



Verification of the impact of the action on the
product

Yes (if you check this box, explain below)
No


Is there an impact on regulatory requirements?
☒
☐


Is there an impact on safety and operation?
☐
☒


Impact assessment:
The identified shortcoming has not had a direct impact
on the product or its safety. However, it does represent a partial
non-compliance with the MDR regarding the management of the UDI. The
corrective actions put in place ensure that the UDI and its updates are
now adequately addressed and documented in accordance with regulatory
requirements.


Responsible for the action
Iván Pérez
Department
Quality Assurance


Deadline
31/10/2025


To be completed by the person who opens
Signature and date



To be completed by the quality manager:
Signature and date
Date:



Evaluation of the effectiveness of the change – To be
completed when the change is made


Has the change been implemented
successfully?
☐
Yes


☐
No
Observations





Effectiveness of change – To be completed when the
change is made





Closing carried out by:
Date