ORDER AND CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT










Function:
Prepared by:
Reviewed by:
Approved by:




Department:
Quality Assurance
Systems and cybersecurity
Quality Assurance


Name:
Ivan Perez
David Pozo
Fernando Pozo


Signature:





Date:














Valid until:
02/06/2028















**DOCUMENT HISTORY**




**VERSION**
**CAUSES OF MODIFICATION**
**EFFECTIVE DATE**
**REPLACES (CODE, REVISION)**


01
Initial edition
22/02/2024
N/A


02
Change in Spika's departments
02/06/2025
PNT-021.01




# Content

[1.](#aim) [Objective](#aim) [4](#aim)

[2.](#scope) [Scope](#scope) [4](#scope)

[3.](#responsibilities-and-departments-affected) [Responsibilities and
Departments affected](#responsibilities-and-departments-affected)
[4](#responsibilities-and-departments-affected)

[4.](#definitions-and-acronyms) [Definitions and
Acronyms](#definitions-and-acronyms) [5](#definitions-and-acronyms)

[5.](#procedure) [Procedure](#procedure) [5](#procedure)

[5.1.](#customer-registration) [Customer
registration](#customer-registration) [5](#customer-registration)

[5.1.1.](#client-updates-and-maintenance) [Client Update and
Maintenance](#client-updates-and-maintenance)
[6](#client-updates-and-maintenance)

[5.1.2.](#system-feedback) [System feedback](#system-feedback)
[6](#system-feedback)

[5.2.](#order-placement) [Ordering](#order-placement)
[6](#order-placement)

[6.](#distribution-of-the-procedure) [Distribution of
Procedure](#distribution-of-the-procedure)
[7](#distribution-of-the-procedure)

[7.](#annexes) [Annexes](#annexes) [8](#annexes)

[8.](#related-documentation) [Related
documentation](#related-documentation) [8](#related-documentation)

[9.](#training) [Formation](#training) [8](#training)

[High customer model](#high-customer-model) [9](#high-customer-model)

# Aim

The purpose of this procedure is to define the management of customers
and orders to which Spika Tech, hereinafter Spika, distributes its
products, encompassing the process of registering, modifying, and
deleting said customers and orders.

# Scope

This procedure applies to all SPIKA clients.

#  Responsibilities and Departments Affected

It is the Sales department's responsibility to request and maintain
up-to-date customer and order documentation.

It is the responsibility of the Quality department to safeguard the
documentation generated by the registration, cancellation, or
modification of clients.

It is the responsibility of the Sales department to safeguard the
documentation generated from orders.

The affected departments are those indicated in the following table:









Department
Apply


Yeah
No




Address
☒
☐


Environment
☒
☐


Quality Assurance
☒
☐


Systems and Cybersecurity
☒
☐


Research and Development
☒
☐


Marketing and Sales
☒
☐


Management
☒
☐




# Definitions and Acronyms

N/A

# Procedure

# Customer registration

The new client will be registered from the Sales department following
these **steps:**









**STAGE**
**RESPONSIBLE**
**RECORD**




**Request for registration documents.**
Once the designated staff member has contacted the client, they will
send the form in **Annex 1.** They will send it to the
potential client using the format they prefer, for example,
email.
Sales
Annex 1


**Reception of documents.**
Once the client submits the completed form, the staff receiving the
documentation must compare and review it.
Sales
Annex 1 completed.


**Customer registration.**
With the documentation correctly and duly completed, the sales staff
will register the customer in the system and automatically assign them a
consecutive number . **Annex 1** can be attached to the
electronic system for archiving.
Sales
N/A




The client will be accepted when the following is available:

-   Annex 1 completed

-   Hospitals and clinics: a copy of the Pharmacy Unit authorization
    must be available. If it is a clinic or hospital, this must be
    verified in the Ministry of Health's National Hospital Catalog. If
    it does not appear in the previous registry, it must be verified in
    the Registry of Health Centers (
    







**No.**
**STAGE**
**RESPONSIBLE**




1
**Receiving the order request** : Sales staff receives
the sales request for the product via email, phone call, or from the
customer.
Sales


2
**Order planning** : Sales informs the Management of
the possible sale request , and creates a detailed report of prices,
payment method, warranty and duration of the offer according to the
product model to be quoted.
Sales / Management


3
**Prepare sales budget:** Management Discloses the
pre-quote report to the Sales area for the formal quotation.
Address


5

**Send and approve the sales quote:** Sales sends an
email with this document according to the requested specifications. If
the customer approves, Management is notified to continue .

Sales


6

**Contract preparation** : the administrator requests
the client's documents via email.

Sales


7
**Contract signing and advance payment** : The
administrator sends the sales contract via email for the client's
review. If the client approves it, the document must be signed by the
company's legal representative.
Sales / Management


8
**Product installation** : Sales will contact the
customer to arrange product installation if necessary.
Sales / CUSTOMER


9
**Compliance:** once the installation compliance is
received, the invoice is issued.
Sales




# Distribution of the Procedure

Staff members in the departments listed in Section 3 (Responsibilities
and Affected Departments) must be provided with a copy of this
procedure. In addition, controlled copy No. 1 will be submitted to the
Archives for paper archiving.

Controlled copies to be issued:








**Controlled Copy No.**
**Departments**




1
Archive




# Annexes








**NO. / REV.**
**QUALIFICATION**




1/01
High customer model




# Related documentation








**Code**
**QUALIFICATION**




PNT-007
Claims Management


PNT-009
Customer satisfaction measure




# 

# Training

This version requires that the affected departments indicated in section
3 receive the training indicated below:








**Mark with an X**
**Type of training**




☒
**Theoretical** (reading and understanding of the
procedure)


☐
**Theoretical – Practical** (If you select this option,
contact the Responsible Technician)




**Annex 1\_VERSION\_0 2**

# High customer model












CONTACT INFORMATION




COMPANY NAME

CIF



ADDRESS

CP:



LOCALITY

PROVINCE



E-MAIL:

COUNTRY



CONTACTS


Name and surname of contact person

Phone:



E-mail:



SHIPPING INFORMATION (if different from billing
information)


ADDRESS

CP:



LOCALITY

PROVINCE



E-MAIL:

COUNTRY



BANK DETAILS


ACCOUNT NUMBER (IBAN)