---
id: pnt_019_03_labeling_management_en
title: "Pnt 019 03 Labeling Management En"
sidebar_label: "Pnt 019 03 Labeling Management En"
---

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||OFFICIAL USE INTERNAL|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

# **LABELING MANAGEMENT**

|Function:|Prepared by:|Reviewed by:|Approved by:|
|---|---|---|---|
|Department:|Quality Assurance|Systems<br />and<br />cybersecurity|Quality Assurance|
|Name:|Ivan Perez|David Pozo|Fernando Pozo|
|Signature:||||
|Date:||||

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

|DOCUMENT HISTORY|Col2|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|VERSION|CAUSES OF MODIFICATION|EFFECTIVE<br />DATE|REPLACES<br />(CODE,<br />REVISION)|
|01|Initial edition|22/02/2024|N/A|
|02|Change in Spika departments, change in<br />label format and location|02/06/2025|PNT-019.01|
|03|Changing the label image to a general outline|05/07 /2025|PNT-019.02|

Page 2 of 9

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

## Content
1. Objective 2. Scope
3. Responsibilities and Departments affected 4. Definitions and Acronyms
5. Procedure 5.1. Generalities
5.2. Recommendations 5.3. Tag Management
5.4. UDI 6. Distribution of Procedure
7. Annexes 8. Related documentation
9. Formation Page 3 of 9

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

## **1. Aim**
The objective of this procedure is to define the operating procedure for label design at Spika Tech, hereinafter Spika, understanding it as a fundamental task with regard to product
identification.
## **2. Scope**
This procedure applies to all labeling generated by Spika for the medical devices it distributes.
## **3. Responsibilities and Departments Affected**
The Technical Manager is responsible for supervising labeling management.
The Research and Development Department is responsible for uploading the labeling to a location visible to the user and keeping it updated.
The affected departments are:
Page 4 of 9

|Department|Apply|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|Department|Yeah|No|
|Address|☒|☐|
|Environment|`☒`|`☐`|
|Quality Assurance|☒|☐|
|Systems and Cybersecurity|☒|☐|
|Research and Development|☒|☐|
|Marketing and Sales|☒|☐|
|Management|`☒`|`☐`|

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

## **4. Definitions and Acronyms** • Label : The written, printed or graphic information appearing on the product itself, on
the packaging of each unit or on the packaging of several products.
## • Intended purpose : the intended use of a product according to the data provided by the
manufacturer on the label, in the instructions for use or in the promotional or sales material or statements, and as indicated by the manufacturer in the clinical evaluation.
## • Instructions for use : information provided by the manufacturer to inform the user
about the intended purpose of a product, its correct use and the precautions to be taken
## • Unique Product Identifier or UDI Device Identifier : a series of numeric or alphanumeric
characters that is created according to internationally accepted product identification and coding standards and enables the unambiguous identification of products on the
market.
## • CE marking of conformity" or "CE marking" means a marking by which a manufacturer
indicates that a product conforms to the applicable requirements set out in this Regulation and other applicable Union harmonisation legislation providing for its
affixing
## • ICAD : The ICAD system refers to Automatic Identification and Data Capture (or AIDC)
. Identification for Data Capture) and can be a linear barcode or a DataMatrix, etc.
## **5. Procedure** **5.1. Generalities**
In the case of medical devices, European Council Regulation 2017/745 must be followed, where the labeling must include:
## • Name or trade name of the product • Information necessary to identify the product, its contents and its intended purpose • The name, registered trade name or registered trademark of the manufacturer and its
registered office Page 5 of 9

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

## • If the manufacturer's registered office is located outside the Union, the name of the
authorized representative and the address of the registered office of the authorized representative.
## • The batch number or serial number of the product, preceded by the words "BATCH
NUMBER" or "SERIAL NUMBER" or an equivalent symbol, as applicable.
## • The support for the unique identification referred to in Article 27, paragraph 4, and
Annex VII, Part C.
## • Unambiguous indication of the end-date for safe use or implementation of the product,
expressed at least in terms of year and month, where applicable.
## • Where no indication of the date until which the product can be safely used is given, the
date of manufacture is given. This date of manufacture may be included as part of the batch or serial number, provided that the date is clearly identifiable.
## • Indication of any specific storage or handling conditions that may apply.
When a lot number, serial number, software identification, or expiration date appears on the label, they will be included in the UDI-PI. When the label also includes the manufacturing date,
it need not be included in the UDI-PI. When only the manufacturing date appears on the label, this will be used as the UDI-PI.
It is recommended to use the symbols permitted in each case, following the guidelines of UNE EN ISO 15223-1 Medical Devices. Symbols to be used on labels, labeling, and information
to be provided.
## **5.2. Recommendations**
In the labeling, instructions for use, marketing, commissioning and advertising of products, the use of texts, names, trademarks, photographs and images or other signs that may
mislead the user or patient as to the intended purpose, safety and operation of the product by any of the following means is prohibited:
a) attributing to the product functions and properties that it does not possess;
b) create a false impression about treatment or diagnosis, functions or properties that the product does not possess;
c) Failure to inform the user or patient about the potential risks involved in using the product for its intended purpose;
Page 6 of 9

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

d) imply uses of the product other than those indicated as part of the intended purpose for which the conformity assessment was carried out.
## **5.3. Tag management**
Spika will include product information in the form of a label on the home screen of the VR cardio viewing app, downloading it and making it visible to the user, as shown in the example below. Additionally, the label code and version will be encoded in the lower right margin.
Nombre del producto Descripción del producto
MM/AA Referencia del producto
xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx SPIKA TECH, S.L.
c/ Alcalá de Guaidara, nº6, 6ºA Derecha, 28018, Madrid, Spain Versión del producto
The label will be previously designed and approved in physical /paper/electronic format by at least:
## • For software, the designer of the production department and the Technical Manager,
thus complying with applicable regulations, which is duly checked by the technical manager of the organization.
## **5.4. UDI placement criteria**
In the case of software, the UDI will be provided on a screen that is easily accessible to the user in an easily readable text format, such as in the “about…” product information file or on
the home screen.
Page 7 of 9

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

## **6. Distribution of the Procedure**
Staff members in the departments listed in Section 3 (Responsibilities and Affected Departments) must be provided with a copy of this procedure. In addition, controlled copy No.
1 will be submitted to the Archives for paper archiving.
Controlled copies to be issued:

|Controlled Copy No.|Departments|
|---|---|
|1|Archive|

## **7. Annexes**

|NO. /<br />REV.|QUALIFICATION|
|---|---|
|N/A|N/A|

## **8. Related documentation**

|Code|QUALIFICATION|
|---|---|
|N/A|UNE EN ISO – 15223-1 Medical Devices. Symbols to be used on labels,<br />labeling, and information to be provided.|
|N/A|European Council Regulation 2017/745|

## **9. Training**
This version requires that the affected departments indicated in section 3 receive the training indicated below:
Page 8 of 9

|Col1|LABELING MANAGEMENT|Code: PNT-019.03|
|---|---|---|
||LABELING MANAGEMENT|Effective Date: 05/07/2025|

|☒|Theoretical (reading and understanding of the procedure)|
|---|---|
|`☐`|Theoretical – Practical(If you select this option,contact the Responsible<br />Technician)|

Page 9 of 9